----- Linux Commands -------
touch : used to create files
ls : list out all files
ll : long listing
cat : Concatenate file content
cd : current working directory
pwd : present working directory
cp : copy files and directories
mv : move or rename a file or directory
rm : remove file
mkdir : create directories
rmdir : remove directory
rm -rf : remove directories
head : to print specific lines
tail : to print specific lines
sed : to print specific lines and delete specific lines
cut : to print column based filtering
awk : to print column based filtering
vi : editor
df : to check disk information
du : to check disk utilization
grep : search for specific pattern
echo : display line of text on the terminal
uniq : used to remove all repeated lines
sort : used to sort the data
exit : logout from the terminal
whoami : display current user name
ifconfig : ip address
chown : change ownership
chgrp : change group
chmod : change modification
Sighup : Usually every process in the linux system is a SIGHUP ( Signal HangUp) which is responsible for terminating the p         rocess after clsoing the terminal.
Nohup : Responsible for runs the process even after closing the terminal.
type : To display command's type
which : To display an executable location
man : To display program's manual page
crontab : crontab is a schedular which is used to schedule the jobs.
ln-s : to create a soft link
ln : to create hard link
curl : using curl command we can download the files
pipes : pipes are used to send the output of one command to another command.
ps : process management
top : used to show the active linux process dynamic real time view of the running system.
uptime : from how long system has been running
ssh : secure shell used to connect to a remote computer securely.
telnet : used to create a remote connection with a system over TCP / IP network.
ping : used to check whether connection to the server is working or not.
FTP : File Transfer Protocol preferred protocol for data transfer amongst the computers.
userdel username : To delete particular user
passwd username : Create a password for particular user.
groupdel groupname : To delete a particular group.
id username : To check whether user has been created or not.
groupadd groupname : To add a group.
SFTP : SSH File Transfer Protocol allows you to perform a range of operations on remote files aand resume file transfers also.
SCP : Secure Copy Protocol copy files or directories from oner server to another server.
useradd -g groupname username : To add a user for particular group.
NETSTAT: Netstat is a networking tool used for trouble shoooting and configuaration management.
lsblk : List information about all the available or specified block devices.It shows the partition details of the disk.
SSH Keygen : Passwordless authentication . This command used to generate a public / private authentication key pairs, Authentication key pairs alow a user to connect to a remote              system without supplying password.
Traceroute : Traceroute is a network trouble shooting utility which shows no.of hopes to taken to reach the destination and also determine the packets travelling.
DIG : Domain Information Groper related to DNS related query.
NSLOOKUP : Command used to find out DNS related query.
Route : Command shows and manipulate IP routing table.
Host : Host command used to find a name to IP.
ETHTOOL : ethtool is a replacement of mii-tool.It is to view,setting speed and duplex of your Network Interface Card.
IWCONFIG : Used to configure a wireless network interface.
Hostname : Hostname is used to identify name in a network.
Alias : alias replace one string from the shell with another string.It converts a complicated command into a simpler command or in oterwords it creates a shortcut by replacing           it with a simpler one.
chmod : change modifications for user or group.
su -username : switch to another user.
su username : Temporarly login.
scriptname & : To run a script in the background.
yum : YUM - YellowDog Update Modifier  is helpful for installing packages.

